OSDOCS-2218: Migrating Deploying section from Google Docs to GitHub (#32825)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/sandboxed-containers-preparing-openshift-cluster.adoc

// * sandboxed_containers/deploying_sandboxed_containers.adoc

[id="sandboxed-containers-preparing-openshift-cluster_{context}"]
= Preparing your cluster for {sandboxed-containers-first}

Before you install {sandboxed-containers-first}, ensure that your {product-title} cluster meets the following requirements:

* Your cluster must be installed on bare metal infrastructure with {op-system-first} workers.
// To Do: Add link to bare metal instructions: ../../installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc#installing-bare-metal[bare metal]
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
* {sandboxed-containers-first} only supports {op-system} worker nodes. RHEL 7 or RHEL  8 nodes are not supported.
* Nested virtualization is not supported.
====
* Your cluster must use installer-provisioned infrastructure.
// To Do: Add link to installer provisioned infrastructure: ../../installing/installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-overview.adoc#ipi-install-overview[Installer provisioned infrastructure]

[id="sandboxed-containers-additional-resource-requirements_{context}"]
== Additional resource requirements for {sandboxed-containers-first}

> {sandboxed-containers-first} is a product that brings the ability to run workloads inside a sandboxed runtime, such as Kata Containers, to your {product-title} clusters. Each pod is represented by a virtual machine (VM). Each VM hosts a `kata-agent` process that acts as a supervisor for managing container workloads and processes running in those container. There are two additional processes that add more overhead:

Reviewer: We really have three processes (and mention three later). What about adding `qemu-kiwi` as an additional process?

Reviewer: "Each VM runs in a `qemu` process and hosts a `kata-agent` process...`

// * sandboxed_containers/deploying_sandboxed_containers.adoc

[id="sandboxed-containers-preparing-openshift-cluster_{context}"]
= Preparing your cluster for {sandboxed-containers-first}

Before you install {sandboxed-containers-first}, ensure that your {product-title} cluster meets the following requirements:

* Your cluster must be installed on bare metal infrastructure with {op-system-first} workers.
// To Do: Add link to bare metal instructions: ../../installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc#installing-bare-metal[bare metal]
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
* {sandboxed-containers-first} only supports {op-system} worker nodes. RHEL 7 or RHEL  8 nodes are not supported.
* Nested virtualization is not supported.
====
* Your cluster must use installer-provisioned infrastructure.
// To Do: Add link to installer provisioned infrastructure: ../../installing/installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-overview.adoc#ipi-install-overview[Installer provisioned infrastructure]

[id="sandboxed-containers-additional-resource-requirements_{context}"]
== Additional resource requirements for {sandboxed-containers-first}

> {sandboxed-containers-first} is a product that brings the ability to run workloads inside a sandboxed runtime, such as Kata Containers, to your {product-title} clusters. Each pod is represented by a virtual machine (VM). Each VM hosts a `kata-agent` process that acts as a supervisor for managing container workloads and processes running in those container. There are two additional processes that add more overhead:

Reviewer: Thanks @sagidlow for taking my input into consideration. However, as written, there is now a repetition, and an inconsistency between "two additional processes" and the _three_ bullets.

Suggestion:

```
{sandboxed-containers-first} is a product that brings the ability to run workloads inside a sandboxed runtime, such as Kata Containers, to your {product-title} clusters. Each pod is represented by a virtual machine (VM). Each VM runs in a `qemu` process and hosts a `kata-agent` process that acts as a supervisor for managing container workloads and processes running in those container. There are two additional processes that add more overhead:

 * `containerd-shim-kata-v2` is used to communicate with the pod.
 * `virtiofsd` handles host file system access on behalf of the guest.
```

WDYT?

Author: Sounds good to me!

* `containerd-shim-kata-v2` is used to communicate with the pod.
* `virtiofsd` handles host file system access on behalf of the guest.
* Each VM runs in a `qemu` process and hosts a `kata-agent` process. 

Each VM is configured with a default amount of memory. Additional memory is hot-plugged into the VM for containers that explicitly request memory.

* If a container runs without a given memory resource, it is able to consume free memory. It will do so until the total memory used by the VM reaches the default allocation. The guest and its I/O buffers also consume memory.
* If a container is given a specific amount of memory, then that memory is hot-plugged into the VM before the container starts.
* If a memory limit is specified, then the workload is terminated if it consumes more memory than the limit. If no memory limit is specified, the kernel  that is running on the virtual machine might run out of memory. If the kernel runs out of memory it might terminate other process on the virtual machine.

.Indicative memory sizes

The table below lists some typical values for resource allocation.

[cols="2,2"]
|===
|Resource |Value

> |Memory allocated by default to a virtual machine | 2G

Reviewer: @sagidlow I believe that we decided to use 2Gi, 30Mi, etc for consistency with the rest of the documentation.

|Guest Linux kernel memory usage at boot | ~110M
|Memory used by the QEMU process (excluding VM memory) | ~30M
|Memory used by the `virtiofsd` process (excluding VM I/O buffers) | ~10M
|Memory used by the `containerd-shim-kata-v2` process | ~20M
|File buffer cache data after running `dnf install` on Fedora | ~300M* ^[1]^
|===
[.small]
--

> Total memory usage is properly accounted for by the memory utilization metrics, which only count that memory once.

Reviewer: That line belongs to the note below.

1. File buffers appear and are accounted for in multiple locations:
* In the guest where it appears as file buffer cache.
* In the `virtiofsd` daemon, mapped allow user-space file I/O operations.
* In the QEMU process as guest memory.
--

link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-overhead/[Pod overhead] describes the amount of system resources that a pod on a node uses. You can get the current pod overhead for the `kata` runtime class by using `oc describe runtimeclass kata` as shown below.

.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe runtimeclass kata
Name:         kata
[...]
Metadata:
[...]
Overhead:
  Pod Fixed:
    Cpu:     250m
    Memory:  350Mi
[...]
----

You can change the pod overhead by changing the `spec.overhead` field for a `RuntimeClass`. For instance, if the configuration that you run for your containers consumes more than 350Mi of memory for the QEMU process and guest kernel data, you may alter the `RuntimeClass` overhead to suit your needs.

[NOTE]
====

> The specified default overhead values are supported by Red Hat. Changing default overhead values may result in technical issues that is not supported by Red Hat.

Reviewer: "technical issues that _are_ not supported by Red Hat"?

====

.Example
[source,yaml]
----
kind: RuntimeClass
apiVersion: node.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
    name: kata
overhead:
    podFixed:
        memory: "500Mi"
        cpu: "500m"
----

> * The default allocation for virtual machines is 2Gi.

Reviewer: These bullet points can be removed now that the table above provides the information.

Reviewer 2: Are the values in the table the defaults? The text just calls them _typical values_.

Reviewer: @mburke5678 The value of memory allocated to the VM is specified in a configuration file, so it is a default value. The other values are observed values on small workloads like `ngingx`. They vary by workload.

Reviewer: @sagidlow I believe that the entire text could be dropped. It adds nothing compared to the table, and simply feels like a repeat of (somewhat secondary) information.

Reviewer: @sagidlow To be precise, what I would drop starts with `The default allocation for virtual machines…` and ends with `when reporting the memory utilization metrics`

// * sandboxed_containers/deploying_sandboxed_containers.adoc

[id="sandboxed-containers-preparing-openshift-cluster_{context}"]
= Preparing your cluster for {sandboxed-containers-first}

Before you install {sandboxed-containers-first}, ensure that your {product-title} cluster meets the following requirements:

> * Your cluster must be installed on bare metal infrastructure with {op-system-first} workers.

Reviewer 2: Should you combine these two prereqs so that folks don't think after the first bullet that they can use sandboxes with baremetal UPI?

* `containerd-shim-kata-v2` is used to communicate with the pod.
* `virtiofsd` handles host file system access on behalf of the guest.

Each VM is configured with a default amount of memory. Additional memory is hot-plugged into the VM for containers that explicitly request memory.

* If a container runs without a given memory resource, it is able to consume free memory. It will do so until the total memory used by the VM reaches the default allocation. The guest and its I/O buffers also consume memory.
* If a container is given a specific amount of memory, then that memory is hot-plugged into the VM before the container starts.
* If a memory limit is specified, then the workload is terminated if it consumes more memory than the limit. If no memory limit is specified, the kernel  that is running on the virtual machine might run out of memory. If the kernel runs out of memory it might terminate other process on the virtual machine.

> .Indicative memory sizes

Reviewer 2: Indicative?

> The table below lists some typical values for resource allocation.

Reviewer 2: s/table below/following table per IBM Style Guide

[cols="2,2"]
|===
|Resource |Value

|Memory allocated by default to a virtual machine | 2Gi
|Guest Linux kernel memory usage at boot | ~110Mi
|Memory used by the QEMU process (excluding VM memory) | ~30Mi
|Memory used by the `virtiofsd` process (excluding VM I/O buffers) | ~10Mi
|Memory used by the `containerd-shim-kata-v2` process | ~20Mi
|File buffer cache data after running `dnf install` on Fedora | ~300Mi* ^[1]^
|===
[.small]
--

1. File buffers appear and are accounted for in multiple locations:
* In the guest where it appears as file buffer cache.

> * In the `virtiofsd` daemon, mapped allow user-space file I/O operations.

Reviewer 2: Probably my ignorance. I don't know what _mapped allow user-space file I/O operations_ means. It just seems incorrect

* In the QEMU process as guest memory.

[NOTE]
====
Total memory usage is properly accounted for by the memory utilization metrics, which only count that memory once.
====
--

link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-overhead/[Pod overhead] describes the amount of system resources that a pod on a node uses. You can get the current pod overhead for the `kata` runtime class by using `oc describe runtimeclass kata` as shown below.

.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe runtimeclass kata
Name:         kata
[...]
Metadata:
[...]
Overhead:
  Pod Fixed:
    Cpu:     250m
    Memory:  350Mi
[...]
----

> You can change the pod overhead by changing the `spec.overhead` field for a `RuntimeClass`. For instance, if the configuration that you run for your containers consumes more than 350Mi of memory for the QEMU process and guest kernel data, you may alter the `RuntimeClass` overhead to suit your needs.

Reviewer 2: s/you may/you can per ISG

[NOTE]
====
The specified default overhead values are supported by Red Hat. Changing default overhead values may result in technical issues that are not supported by Red Hat.
====

.Example
[source,yaml]
----
kind: RuntimeClass
apiVersion: node.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
    name: kata
overhead:
    podFixed:
        memory: "500Mi"
        cpu: "500m"
----

* The default allocation for virtual machines is 2Gi.
* The Linux kernel uses approximately 100Mi of memory at boot time.
* The QEMU process uses approximately 30Mi of memory.
* The `virtiofsd` process uses approximately 10Mi of memory.
* The `shim-v2` process uses approximately 20Mi of memory.

> When performing any kind of file system I/O in the guest, file buffers are allocated in the guest kernel. The file buffers are also mapped in the QEMU process on the host, as well as on the `virtiofsd` process. For example, if you use 300Mi of file buffer cache in the guest, both QEMU and `virtiofsd` appears to use 300Mi additional memory. However, the same memory is being used in all three cases. In other words, the total memory usage is only 300Mi, mapped in three different places. This is correctly accounted for when reporting the memory utilization metrics.

Reviewer 2: s/both QEMU and `virtiofsd` appears/both QEMU and `virtiofsd` appear ??

== Additional resource requirements for {sandboxed-containers-first}

{sandboxed-containers-first} is a product that brings the ability to run workloads inside a sandboxed runtime, such as Kata Containers, to your {product-title} clusters. Each pod is represented by a virtual machine (VM). Each VM runs in a `qemu` process and hosts a `kata-agent` process that acts as a supervisor for managing container workloads and processes that are running in those containers. There are two additional processes that add more overhead:

* `containerd-shim-kata-v2` is used to communicate with the pod.
* `virtiofsd` handles host file system access on behalf of the guest.

Each VM is configured with a default amount of memory. Additional memory is hot-plugged into the VM for containers that explicitly request memory.

* If a container runs without a given memory resource, it is able to consume free memory. It will do so until the total memory used by the VM reaches the default allocation. The guest and its I/O buffers also consume memory.
* If a container is given a specific amount of memory, then that memory is hot-plugged into the VM before the container starts.

> * If a memory limit is specified, then the workload is terminated if it consumes more memory than the limit. If no memory limit is specified, the kernel  that is running on the virtual machine might run out of memory. If the kernel runs out of memory it might terminate other process on the virtual machine.

Reviewer: "other process" -> "another process" or "other processes"

Reviewer: @sagidlow ^

--

1. File buffers appear and are accounted for in multiple locations:
* In the guest where it appears as file buffer cache.
* In the `virtiofsd` daemon that maps allowed user-space file I/O operations.
* In the QEMU process as guest memory.

[NOTE]
====
Total memory usage is properly accounted for by the memory utilization metrics, which only count that memory once.
====
--

link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-overhead/[Pod overhead] describes the amount of system resources that a pod on a node uses. You can get the current pod overhead for the `kata` runtime class by using `oc describe runtimeclass kata` as shown below.

.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe runtimeclass kata
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         kata
[...]
Metadata:
[...]
Overhead:
  Pod Fixed:
    Cpu:     250m
    Memory:  350Mi
[...]
----

You can change the pod overhead by changing the `spec.overhead` field for a `RuntimeClass`. For instance, if the configuration that you run for your containers consumes more than 350Mi of memory for the QEMU process and guest kernel data, you can alter the `RuntimeClass` overhead to suit your needs.

[NOTE]
====

> The specified default overhead values are supported by Red Hat. Changing default overhead values may result in technical issues that are not supported by Red Hat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The specified default overhead values are supported by Red Hat. Changing default overhead values is not supported and may result in technical issues. 
```

Reviewer 3: I feel the current statement is a bit repelling.

====

.Example
[source,yaml]
----
kind: RuntimeClass
apiVersion: node.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
    name: kata
overhead:
    podFixed:
        memory: "500Mi"
        cpu: "500m"

> ----

Reviewer 3: The formatting looks strange, here is a suggested replacement. 

```yaml
---
kind: RuntimeClass
apiVersion: node.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: kata
overhead:
  podFixed:
    memory: "500Mi"
    cpu: "500m"
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
* {sandboxed-containers-first} only supports {op-system} worker nodes. RHEL 7 or RHEL  8 nodes are not supported.
* Nest virtualization is not supported.
====
* Your cluster must use installer provisioned infrastructure.
// To Do: Add link to installer provisioned infrastructure: ../../installing/installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-overview.adoc#ipi-install-overview[Installer provisioned infrastructure]

[id="sandboxed-containers-additional-resource-requirements_{context}"]
== Additional resource requirements for {sandboxed-containers-first}

{sandboxed-containers-first} is a product that brings the ability to run workloads inside a sandboxed runtime, such as Kata Containers, to your {product-title} clusters. Each pod is represented by a virtual machine (VM). Each VM hosts a `kata-agent` that processes guests as a supervisor for managing containers and running your container workloads. There are two additional processes that add more overhead:

* `containerd-shim-kata-v2` is used to communicate with the pod.
* `Virtiofsd` handles host file system access on behalf of the guest.

> Each VM is configured with a default amount of memory. Additional memory is hot-plugged into the VM for containers that explicitly request memory.

Reviewer: "containers that explicit request memory" means containers that have a memory request in the container spec, i.e. something like:

```
      resources:
        requests:
          memory: 384Mi
```

* If a container runs without a given memory resource, it is able to consume free memory. It will do so until the total memory used by the VM reaches the default allocation. The guest and its I/O buffers also consume memory.

> * If a container is given a specific amount of memory, then that memory is hot-plugged into the VM before the container starts.

Reviewer: @jeana-redhat Yes. There is a default amount of memory (2G by default). Then if a container does not request memory, it gets something carved out of the 2G. If it does request for example 3G, then the VM now has 5G, and as a result, the container does not use any of the original memory. Note that in all cases, the actual memory usage is likely to be lower. Typically, out of the initial 2G, a simple container may end up using ~300M (kernel and buffers included).

> * If a memory limit is specified, then the memory limit is enforced within the VM using cgroups. If the container exceeds the specified limit, it is OOM-killed.

Reviewer: I would say that cgroups and OOM-killed are one the same level of jargon. That being said, the phrasing could be improved to be less jargonesque. What about:

If a memory limit is specified, then the workload will be killed if it consumes more memory than the limit. If no memory limit is specified, the kernel running in the virtual machine may run out of memory and, when this happens, may kill some other process in the virtual machine.

> * If a memory limit is specified, then the memory limit is enforced within the VM using cgroups. If the container exceeds the specified limit, it is OOM-killed.

Reviewer: @jeana-redhat Agreed. Removed in the rephrasing above.

.Indicative memory sizes

The table below lists some typical values for resource allocation.

[cols="2,2"]
|===
|Resource |Value

|Memory allocated by default to a virtual machine | 2G
|Guest Linux kernel memory usage at boot | ~110M

> |Memory used by the qemu process (excluding VM memory) | ~30M

Reviewer: Do we want to point out that the QEMU process has a special name (`qemu-kiwi`)? Don't ask…

> |Memory used by the qemu process (excluding VM memory) | ~30M

Reviewer 4: If it might confuse someone, then yes probably best indicate that :)

> |Memory used by the qemu process (excluding VM memory) | ~30M

Author: @jensfr or @cpmeadors had suggested using QEMU instead of qemu-kiwi earlier on a different PR so I sort of stuck with QEMU (:

> |Memory used by the virtiofsd process (excluding VM I/O buffers) | ~10M

Reviewer: It is a process name, so should always be lower case and backticks IMO.

> |Memory used by the shimv2 process | ~20M

Reviewer: @jeana-redhat Yes, I would use the full name. Technically, "shim v2" is an API designation (v2 of the shim API) and the process that uses that API is `containerd-shim-kata-v2`.

|File buffer cache data after a ‘dnf install’ on Fedora | ~300M* ^[1]^
|===
[.small]
--
1. File buffers show up and are accounted for in multiple locations:

> * In the guest as guest file file buffer cache.

Reviewer: @jeana-redhat There is an extra "file", and we can remove a "guest" as well. It should be "in the guest where it shows as file buffer cache".

> * In the `virtiofsd` daemon mapped in order to allow I/O.

Reviewer: I would add a comma as well, "In the `virtiofsd` daemon, mapped to allow user-space file I/O operations"

* In the QEMU process as guest memory.
--

> This is properly accounted for by the memory utilization metrics, which only count that memory once.

Reviewer: This is actually the important part. Maybe you should even put it first. The point is that even if you see it multiple times, OpenShift still accounts for it correctly.

> This is properly accounted for by the memory utilization metrics, which only count that memory once.

Reviewer: Total memory usage is properly accounted for… ?

> This is described by a link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-overhead/[pod overhead]. You can get the current pod overhead for the `kata` runtime class by using `oc describe runtimeclass kata` as shown below.

Reviewer: Pod overhead is described…

.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe runtimeclass kata
Name:         kata
[...]
Metadata:
[...]
Overhead:
  Pod Fixed:
    Cpu:     250m
    Memory:  350Mi
[...]
----

> You can change the pod overhead by changing the `spec.overhead` field for a `RuntimeClass`. For instance, if the configuration that you run for your containers consumes more than 350Mi of memory for the QEMU process and guest kernel data, you may alter the `RuntimeClass` overhead to suit your needs.

Reviewer 5: Here we wanted to add a note saying something like: "The default overhead values have been tested by RH, please only change them if you are aware of possible consequences"

Reviewer 3: Christophe mentioned he will be adding it, problem is, I can't tag him anymore not sure why 🤔

Reviewer: @sagidlow I like the additional sentence @jensfr suggested. I'm still awaiting my openshift org inclusion, the email they sent me went to spam.

.Example
[source,terminal]
----
kind: RuntimeClass
apiVersion: node.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
    name: kata
overhead:
    podFixed:
        memory: "500Mi"
        cpu: "500m"
----

* The default allocation for virtual machines is 2G.
* The Linux kernel uses approximately 100M of memory at boot time.
* The QEMU process uses approximately 30M of memory.
* The `virtiofsd` process uses approximately 10M of memory.

> * The `shim-v2` process uses approximately 20M of memory.

Reviewer: These are really approximate values, so I don't think a 2.4% error changes much ;-) Use whatever is consistent with the common usage in the rest of the documentation.

> * The `shim-v2` process uses approximately 20M of memory.

Author: @c3d Could you clarify whether it's intended to be GB or Gi? Same for MB or Mi. I see in the example code that we have CPU: 250M then Memory is 250Mi so I would suggest keeping consistent with documentation but also the code.

> * The `shim-v2` process uses approximately 20M of memory.

Reviewer: @sagidlow That's what I said: it does not matter, because they are approximate values, so use what you use in the rest of the documentation. From what you wrote, I would use 2Gi, 100Mi, etc.
